# Introduction to Graph Theory

# [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1eOGVRA2ziw9swgB1t0VXn2_gnIWl1sd-H5xglgSa3-E/edit?usp=sharing)


##  Why you should know this...
Graph theory is a powerful tool for developing algorithmic thinking and modeling real world problems. Today we will get a glimpse of how we can use this tool by exploring both algorithms and modeling and then merging these together.   


## Learning Objectives (5 min)

1. Practice modeling real world problems with graph theory.
1. Implement a graph theory algorithm with diagrams and pseudocode.
1. Define the Graph ADT and implement in code.

## Activity 1: Model & Implement [40 min]
- With your pair, choose a Model or Implement scenario from the list.  
- [15 min] Using pseudocode, diagrams, whiteboards, etc. complete your scenario.
- [5 min] Find another pair whose scenario maps to yours.   
- [15 min] Swap scenarios with the other pair
- [5 min] Discuss the solutions

## Course Overview [20 min]
- Go over syllabus, learning outcomes, course policies, key deliverables.
- Our course learning approach: Model, Implement Solution, Synthesize & Algorithmic Thinking

## BREAK [10 min]

## Graph, Digraphs & Graph ADT [15 min]
- A **graph** is a collection of **vertices** (also called nodes) and a collection of **edges** which connect one vertex to another.  An edge from vertex *u* to vertex *v* is represented by the unordered pair *(u,v)* and is the same as an edge from *v* to *u*.   Unless otherwise noted, the term **graph** will represent a **undirected simple graph** which has at most one edge between two vertices, and no **loops** or edges from a vertex to itself.

- A **digraph** (directed graph) is a collection of **vertices** and a collection of **arcs** (also called directed edges) which connect one vertex to another with an ordering.  An arc from vertex *u* to *v* can be represented by the ordered pair *(u,v)* and this is different than an arc from vertex *v* to *u* represented as *(v,u)* .

- A **weighted graph (or digraph)** is a graph (digraph) with weights assigned to it's edges (arcs).  The weight of an edge is denoted *w(u,v)* can represent a variety of properties like distance, time, or cost.  


The *Graph Abstract Data Type* is

## Activity 2: Pseudocode & Code [40 min]

- In pairs, design the implementation of the Graph ADT in code using both

## Wrap Up (5 min)

- Review Learning Outcomes
- Overview of homework and topics for next class

## Challenges
- [Challenge 1]() : Implement the Graph ADT

## Stretch Challenges
