# Graph Traversals

## [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1bfFSSSj4j9H5nefw1gJfwvViPXt1RzdiyQ6l6ET2wAA/edit?usp=sharing)

## Why you should know this...
Graph traversals allow us to discover and visit all the vertices in a graph. Traversals are used both to find common graph properties and form the basis of many other algorithms.  We will revisit them throughout the class.


## Learning Objectives (5 min)

1. Implement Iterative and Recursive version of Depth First Search (DFS).
1. Implement Iterative version of Breadth First Search (BFS).
1. Compare and Contrast DFS and BFS to determine when to use each traversal method based on algorithmic complexity.
1. Find the shortest path between two vertices using BFS.

## Review [15 min]
Recall that you've already learned how to traverse a tree (CS 1.3) using either
 **Depth-first search (DFS)** or **Breadth-first search (BFS)**.

#### DFS in Trees

In DFS there are three different ways to visit the nodes: in-order, pre-order, and post-order.  To simplify we'll just focus on in-order traversal in which we visit all the nodes in the left sub-tree first before the parent, then visit the parent, then visit all the nodes in the right sub-tree.


#### BFS in Trees

In BFS we visit the nodes one level at a time, starting with the root, then all the nodes on the next level moving from left to right, then on to the next level until we reach the last level and all nodes have been visited.

### Activity:
- Complete the first part of the [Tree & Graph Traversal Worksheet](Assignments/Traversal-Worksheet.md) in pairs.  
 -
- How does this change in traversing a graph?
    - Using what you know from trees, apply the tree DFS algorithm to a graph.

- Complete the second part of the [Tree & Graph Traversal Worksheet](Assignments/Traversal-Worksheet.md) in pairs.  

## Overview 1: Breadth-first Search [20 min]

Breadth-first search (BFS) is an algorithm for traversing or searching tree or graph data structures. It starts at the tree root (or some arbitrary node of a graph, sometimes referred to as a 'search key'[1]), and explores all of the neighbor nodes at the present depth prior to moving on to the nodes at the next depth level.

It uses the opposite strategy as depth-first search, which instead explores the highest-depth nodes first before being forced to backtrack and expand shallower nodes.


### Shortest Path

A common graph routing problem is to find the shortest path between two vertices in a connected weighted graph.  

- We can find the shortest path between two vertices with a modification of the Breadth-first search algorithm.


## Activity 1: Implement Shortest Path Algorithm [20 min]
- Draw diagrams and write pseudocode to use BFS to find the shortest path between two vertices.  

## Break [10 min]

## Overview 2: Depth-first Search [15 min]

Depth-first search (DFS) is an algorithm for traversing or searching tree or graph data structures. The algorithm starts at the root node (selecting some arbitrary node as the root node in the case of a graph) and explores as far as possible along each branch before backtracking.


### Spanning trees
The set of nodes visited in BFS or DFS and the edges traversed form a tree.  If the algorithm is run to traverse all vertices, then the tree formed is a **spanning tree**.

### Prim's Algorithm.
Another way to find a spanning tree is to use Prim's Algorithm.

## Activity 2: Solving a Maze [20 min]
- Write the pseudocode to solve a maze with DFS



## Wrap Up (5 min)

- Review Learning Outcomes
- Overview of homework and topics for next class

## Challenges
[Challenge 2](Assignments/Challenges.md) : Find a shortest path using BFS Search

## Stretch Challenges
- Use traversal to find the connected components in a graph.


## Resources
- [Deep Dive Through A Graph: DFS Traversal](https://medium.com/basecs/deep-dive-through-a-graph-dfs-traversal-8177df5d0f13)
- [Going Broad In A Graph: BFS Traversal](https://medium.com/basecs/going-broad-in-a-graph-bfs-traversal-959bd1a09255)
