# Paths and Routing

## [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1mvH1YpsiDTl8T_fB6xYF_gkwF_M11DDCme8Agd0EACc/edit?usp=sharing)

## Why you should know this...
One of the most common applications of graph theory is to find and optimize a route between two vertices.


## Learning Objectives (5 min)

1. Implement common graph routing and path algorithms
1. Implement Dijkstra's Algorithm using a priority queue.
1. Compare and Contrast Dijkstra's algorithm to other shortest path algorithm.

## Review [15 min]
- Code review of graph traversal implementations

## Overview 1: Dijkstra's Algorithm [20 min]



### Dijkstra's Algorithm


**[Dijkstra's Algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dijkstra%27s_algorithm)** is a shortest path algorithm that takes weighted edges into consideration! From the starting node, the algorithm visits neighbors one by one and _assigns them a distance value based on the cumulative weights of the shortest path to get to that neighbor_. Distances are updated if a shorter path can be found, and once we're at the target node, we'll know the shortest path to get to there. It's like running a more thoughtful BFS!


### Priority Queues
Dijkstra's algorithm relies on Priority Queues to keep track of the current best distance.

- See [CS 2.1 Priority Queues](https://github.com/Make-School-Courses/CS-2.1-Advanced-Trees-and-Sorting-Algorithms/blob/master/Lessons/Heaps.md) for more resources


## Activity 1: Implement Dijkstra's Algorithm [20 min]
- Build a sample 10 vertex connected graph and implement Dijkstra's algorithm on it.

## Break [10 min]

## Overview 2: Dynamic programming [20 min]
What happens at scale?

## Activity 2:

## Wrap Up (5 min)

- Review Learning Outcomes
- Overview of homework and topics for next class

## Challenges
[Challenge 4](Assignments/Challenges.md) : Implement Dijkstra's Algorithm and Priority Queues

## Stretch Challenges

## Resources
