# Advanced Recursion and Dynamic Programming

## [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1mvH1YpsiDTl8T_fB6xYF_gkwF_M11DDCme8Agd0EACc/edit?usp=sharing)

## Why you should know this...


## Learning Objectives (5 min)

1. Implement Dynamic Programming to improve algorithm speed.
1. Explore advanced recursion implementations.
1. Compare and contrast Brute Force and Dynamic Programming algorithms.

## Review [15 min]
- Review Dijkstra's Code Challenge


## Overview 1: Dynamic Programming in Fibonacci [ 10 min]



## Activity 1: Faster Fibonacci [20 min]
- Write code to implement Fibonacci with and without memoization.  Benchmark and compare results.

## Break [10 min]


## Overview 2: Dynamic Programming in Dijkstra's [30 min]
- [Dynamic Programming](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dynamic_programming)is the process of simplifying a complicated problem by breaking it down into simpler sub-problems in a recursive manner.  The 'programming' part of the name actually refers to the process of optimization, not coding.  However, we will use this process to implement more effective  algorithms in code by breaking problems into sub-problems and then recursively finding the optimal solutions to the sub-problems.


## Activity 2: Implement Dijkstra's Algorithm with Dynamic Programming [20 min]


## Wrap Up (5 min)

- Review Learning Outcomes
- Overview of homework and topics for next class

## Challenges
[Challenge 4](Assignments/Challesnges.md) : Dynamic programming and advanced recursion.

## Interview Questions


## Resources
