# Advanced Recursion and Dynamic Programming - Part 2

## [Slides]()

## Why you should know this...
Dynamic programming is a common technique that allows us to solve a problem by breaking it into sub-problems and solving those.  This makes problems that would take a long time to solve run much quicker!


## Learning Objectives (5 min)

1. Implement Dynamic Programming to improve algorithm speed.
1. Explore advanced recursion implementations.
1. Compare and contrast Brute Force and Dynamic Programming algorithms.

## Overview 1: Dynamic Programming [30 min]
- [Dynamic Programming](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dynamic_programming)is the process of simplifying a complicated problem by breaking it down into simpler sub-problems in a recursive manner.  The 'programming' part of the name actually refers to the process of optimization, not coding.  However, we will use this process to implement more effective  algorithms in code by breaking problems into sub-problems and then recursively finding the optimal solutions to the sub-problems.

The five steps of Dynamic Programming are:
1. Identify the sub-problems
1. Guess first choice
1. Recursively define the value of an optimal solution
1. Compute the value of an optimal solution (recurse and memoize)
1. Solve original problem - reconstruct from the sub-problems

As we've already seen, the recurse and memoize step is a quick way to improve the speed of a recursive algorithm.  

The process of breaking the problem into smaller sub-problems is the key step to dynamic programming. We'll start by looking at several non-graph theory problems and identifying sub-problems there.


## Activity 1: Dynamic Programming - Finding Sub Problems[20 min]

- Identify the sub-problems in these problems.

## BREAK


## Wrap Up (5 min)

- Review Learning Outcomes
- Overview of homework and topics for next class

## Challenges
[Challenge 4](Assignments/Challenges.md) : Dynamic Programming

## Interview Questions
- [Top 50 Dynamic Programming Problems](https://blog.usejournal.com/top-50-dynamic-programming-practice-problems-4208fed71aa3)
- [7 steps to Solving A DP Problem](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/follow-these-steps-to-solve-any-dynamic-programming-interview-problem-cc98e508cd0e/)

## Resources
