# Algorithm Classification

## [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1GG-p9HHQEldQounybTjLKNMtWLgncBAuvlwYWexrXrM/edit?usp=sharing)

## Why you should know this...
Now that we've implemented several algorithms, it's time to step back and understand where these algorithms


## Learning Objectives (5 min)

1. Categorize and Compare Algorithms based on their paradigm (greedy, divide and conquer, backtracking, branch and bound )
1. Implement all paradigms on a set of common graph problems.
1. Explore computational complexity theory and P, NP, NP-hard, NP-complete categorizations.

## Review

## Overview 1: Algorithm Paradigms [20 min]

We've been exploring algorithms that are categorized through the following paradigms.  

- **Greedy Algorithm: ** The algorithm builds the solution by always choosing the most optimal piece next.  It favors local optimality and while it can be easy to implement it does not always produce a global solution.
    - Examples of Greedy Algorithms: Dijkstra's Shortest Path, Prim's Minimum Spanning Tree, Job Sequencing, Graph Coloring

- **Divide and Conquer: ** The algorithm solves the problem in three steps.
1. Divide: break the problem into subproblems of the same type.
1. Conquer: recursively solve the subproblems
1. Combine: appropriately combine the answers.
It is the basis of many recursive algorithms in graph theory.
    - Examples of Divide and Conquer Algorithms: Merge Sort, graph search, graph component properties.

- **Dynamic Programming: ** Algorithms that optimize plain recursion when the same inputs are needed for the recursive step.  The results of subproblems are stored the first time they are computed in a recursive step and then the following recursive calls use the stored result.  This can reduce time complexity from exponential to polynomial.
    - Examples of Dynamic Programming: Bellman-Ford Algorithm, Fibonacci numbers, 0-1 Knapsack Problem, Vertex Cover

- **Backtracking Algorithms: ** The algorithm recursively builds a solution one step at a time.  Each step is checked to determine if it can be in the optimal solution, and if not, it is removed and the algorithm backtracks to the previous step.
    - Examples of Backtracking Algorithms: Knight's Tour, Maze, Hamiltonian Cycle

- **Branch and Bound Algorithms: ** The algorithm splits the problem into subproblems through branching and then looks at each branch to determine if it can be part of the optimal solution by comparing it to an upper and lower bound and discarding if it is not better than the current solution. Algorithms are used to optimize the backtracking step in optimization problems.
    - Examples of Branch and Bound Algorithms: Knapsack Problem, TSP

## Activity 1: Categorize Algorithms
- Look through the algorithms used in this class.  Which paradigm(s) do they use?
- Choose a problem from [graph algorithms](Resources/graph-algorithms.md).  Apply each paradigm in solving it.  
- Which paradigms work best?
- Is there a paradigm that can't be applied?

## Break [10 min]

## Overview 2: Computational Complexity
Many of the algorithms discussed in this course have a polynomial time computational complexity of `O(V+E)` or similar.   

However the set of algorithms that can be completed in polynomial time is a small subset of the algorithms used in graph theory.  

**Computational Complexity**



## Activity 2

## Wrap Up (5 min)

- Review Learning Outcomes
- Overview of homework and topics for next class

## Challenges


## Stretch Challenges

## Resources
1. [Fundamentals of Algorithms](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/fundamentals-of-algorithms/) - Geeks for Geeks
1. [NP Completeness](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/np-completeness-set-1/) - Geeks for Geeks
